README.md, before:

# Aureon Quantum Trading Bot

Autonomous cryptocurrency trading system powered by the **QGITA (Quantum Gravity in the Act)** framework.

---

## 🚀 Overview

The Aureon Quantum Trading Bot is an advanced algorithmic trading system that uses Fibonacci time lattices and multi-metric consensus to detect high-probability structural events in cryptocurrency markets. Unlike traditional bots that react to lagging indicators, QGITA predicts market shifts before they fully materialize.

### Key Features
- ✅ Autonomous 24/7 trading across multiple exchanges
- ✅ Two-stage detection: Fibonacci lattice + Lighthouse consensus
- ✅ Military-grade risk management (stop-loss, position sizing, drawdown protection)
- ✅ Multi-exchange support (Binance, Coinbase Pro, Kraken)
- ✅ Real-time alerts (SMS, email, push notifications)
- ✅ Paper trading mode for risk-free validation
- ✅ Advanced analytics dashboard
- ✅ 75-85% historical win rate

---

## 📋 Table of Contents
1. [Installation](#-installation)
2. [Quick Start](#-quick-start)
3. [Configuration](#-configuration)
4. [How It Works](#-how-it-works)
5. [API Setup](#-api-setup)
6. [Usage](#-usage)
7. [Risk Management](#%EF%B8%8F-risk-management)
8. [Performance Monitoring](#-performance-monitoring)
9. [Troubleshooting](#-troubleshooting)
10. [Security](#-security)
11. [Contributing](#-contributing)
12. [License](#-license)
13. [Support](#-support)
14. [Disclaimer](#-disclaimer)
15. [Whats Next](#-whats-next)
16. [QGITA Whitepaper](#-qgita-whitepaper)

---

## 🔧 Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.9+ (recommended: 3.11)
- `pip` package manager
- Virtual environment (recommended)
- Exchange API keys (Binance, Coinbase, or Kraken)
- Minimum 4GB RAM, 10GB disk space

### Step 1: Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/raconsulting/aureon-trading-bot.git
cd aureon-trading-bot
```

### Step 2: Create Virtual Environment
```bash
# Windows
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate

# macOS/Linux
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

### Step 3: Install Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Step 4: Install Optional Dependencies
```bash
# For advanced analytics
pip install -r requirements-analytics.txt

# For machine learning enhancements
pip install -r requirements-ml.txt
```

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

1. **Configure Your Environment**
   ```bash
   cp config.example.yml config.yml
   ```
   Edit `config.yml` with your settings:
   ```yaml
   # Basic Configuration
   mode: paper  # 'paper' or 'live'
   exchange: binance
   trading_pairs:
     - BTC/USDT
     - ETH/USDT

   # Risk Management
   risk_per_trade: 0.02  # 2% of capital per trade
   max_daily_loss: 0.05  # Stop trading if 5% daily loss
   stop_loss_percent: 0.015  # 1.5% stop loss
   take_profit_ratio: 2.4  # 2.4:1 risk/reward

   # QGITA Parameters
   fibonacci_depth: 8
   lighthouse_threshold: 0.75  # 75% consensus required
   ```

2. **Add API Keys**

   Create `.env` file (never commit this to git):
   ```bash
   # Binance
   BINANCE_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
   BINANCE_API_SECRET=your_api_secret_here

   # Coinbase Pro
   COINBASE_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
   COINBASE_API_SECRET=your_api_secret_here
   COINBASE_PASSPHRASE=your_passphrase_here

   # Kraken
   KRAKEN_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
   KRAKEN_API_SECRET=your_api_secret_here
   ```

   ⚠️ **Critical Security:**
   - NEVER enable withdrawal permissions on API keys
   - Use IP whitelisting on exchange settings
   - Enable 2FA on your exchange account
   - Store `.env` file securely (never commit to version control)

3. **Run in Paper Trading Mode (Recommended)**
   ```bash
   python aureon_bot.py --mode paper
   ```
   Paper trading uses real market data but simulated trades. Run this for 7-30 days to validate performance before risking real capital.

4. **Switch to Live Trading**
   ```bash
   python aureon_bot.py --mode live
   ```
   ⚠️ **Warning:** Live trading risks real capital. Start with small position sizes.

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

`config.yml` controls all bot behavior:
```yaml
# TRADING MODE
mode: paper  # Options: 'paper', 'live'

# EXCHANGE SETTINGS
exchange: binance  # Options: 'binance', 'coinbase', 'kraken'
trading_pairs:
  - BTC/USDT
  - ETH/USDT
  - SOL/USDT

# CAPITAL ALLOCATION
initial_capital: 10000  # Starting capital (USDT)
max_positions: 3  # Maximum concurrent positions
position_sizing: kelly  # Options: 'fixed', 'kelly', 'percent'

# RISK MANAGEMENT
risk_per_trade: 0.02  # 2% risk per trade
max_daily_loss: 0.05  # 5% max daily drawdown
stop_loss_percent: 0.015  # 1.5% stop loss
take_profit_ratio: 2.4  # 2.4:1 reward/risk
trailing_stop: true
trailing_stop_percent: 0.01  # 1% trailing stop

# QGITA DETECTION PARAMETERS
fibonacci_depth: 8  # Fibonacci sequence depth
curvature_window: 20  # Rolling window for curvature calculation
lighthouse_threshold: 0.75  # 75% consensus required (0-1)
min_signal_strength: 0.65  # Minimum signal confidence (0-1)

# LIGHTHOUSE METRICS WEIGHTS
lighthouse_weights:
  linear_coherence: 0.15
  nonlinear_coherence: 0.25
  cross_scale_coherence: 0.20
  geometric_anomaly: 0.30
  anomaly_pointer: 0.10

# TIMEFRAMES
primary_timeframe: 1h  # Main detection timeframe
secondary_timeframes:  # Multi-timeframe analysis
  - 15m
  - 4h
  - 1d

# ALERTS
alerts_enabled: true
alert_methods:
  - email
  - sms
  - telegram
email_recipients:
  - your_email@example.com
telegram_bot_token: YOUR_TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN
telegram_chat_id: YOUR_TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID

# LOGGING
log_level: INFO  # Options: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR
log_to_file: true
log_directory: ./logs

# PERFORMANCE TRACKING
save_trades: true
trade_log_file: ./data/trades.csv
performance_dashboard: true
dashboard_port: 8080
```

### Risk Profiles (Presets)

**Conservative**
- `risk_per_trade: 0.01`
- `max_daily_loss: 0.03`
- `stop_loss_percent: 0.01`
- `lighthouse_threshold: 0.85`

**Balanced (Recommended)**
- `risk_per_trade: 0.02`
- `max_daily_loss: 0.05`
- `stop_loss_percent: 0.015`
- `lighthouse_threshold: 0.75`

**Aggressive**
- `risk_per_trade: 0.03`
- `max_daily_loss: 0.08`
- `stop_loss_percent: 0.02`
- `lighthouse_threshold: 0.65`

---

## 🧠 How It Works

### The QGITA Framework

QGITA (Quantum Gravity in the Act) is a two-stage anomaly detection system that identifies structural market events with precision.

#### Stage 1: Fibonacci Time Lattice
- **Purpose:** Identify moments of high structural resonance
- **Process:**
  1. Generate Fibonacci sequence: `[1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...]`
  2. Create time lattice at golden-ratio intervals
  3. Calculate price curvature at each Fibonacci point
  4. Detect "Fibonacci-Tightened Curvature Points" (FTCPs) where:
     - Curvature spike exceeds threshold
     - Timing aligns with golden ratio (φ = 1.618...)
- **Why it Works:** Markets exhibit natural rhythms aligned with Fibonacci sequences. By scanning at golden-ratio intervals, we detect structural turning points hidden in noise.
- **Mathematical Foundation:**
  $$\text{FTCP} =  t_i : \kappa(t_i) > \kappa_{\text{threshold}} \land t_i \in \mathcal{F}$$
  Where:
  - $\kappa(t)$ = price curvature at time $t$
  - $\mathcal{F}$ = Fibonacci time lattice
  - $\kappa_{\text{threshold}}$ = dynamic threshold based on historical volatility

#### Stage 2: Lighthouse Consensus
- **Purpose:** Validate FTCPs as true market events
- **Process:** Each FTCP is evaluated by 5 independent metrics:
  1. **Linear Coherence ($C_L$)** – Measures trend clarity using linear regression
  2. **Nonlinear Coherence ($C_{NL}$)** – Detects hidden patterns using wavelet analysis
  3. **Cross-Scale Coherence ($C_{XS}$)** – Validates alignment across multiple timeframes
  4. **Geometric Anomaly ($G_{\text{eff}}$)** – Quantifies structural deviation from baseline
  5. **Anomaly Pointer ($Q$)** – Measures signal sharpness vs noise

- **Lighthouse Score:**
  $$L = w_1 C_L + w_2 C_{NL} + w_3 C_{XS} + w_4 G_{\text{eff}} + w_5 Q$$

- **Trade Signal Generated If:**
  $$L > L_{\text{threshold}} \quad (\text{typically } 0.75)$$

- **Result:**
  - 99%+ reduction in false positives
  - From 100+ daily "signals" to 1-3 high-conviction trades
  - 75-85% win rate in backtesting

### Trade Execution Flow

1. Market Data → Fibonacci Lattice → FTCP Detection → Lighthouse Validation → Risk Check → Order Execution → Position Monitoring → Exit Management

#### Detailed Steps
1. **Data Ingestion** – Real-time price data, order book depth, volume, and volatility metrics
2. **FTCP Detection** – Calculate curvature at Fibonacci intervals, flag potential structural events
3. **Lighthouse Validation** – Compute metrics, calculate weighted consensus, filter out noise
4. **Risk Assessment** – Check positions, verify daily loss limit, calculate position size, set stop-loss/take-profit
5. **Order Execution** – Submit order, confirm fill, log trade, set stop-loss
6. **Position Monitoring** – Track P&L, adjust trailing stops, watch for exit signals
7. **Exit Management** – Close position on stop-loss, take-profit, Lighthouse reversal, or end-of-day risk limit

---

## 🔑 API Setup

### Binance
1. Log in to Binance → Profile → API Management → Create new API key
2. **Critical Settings:**
   - ✅ Enable "Enable Reading"
   - ✅ Enable "Enable Spot & Margin Trading"
   - ❌ Disable "Enable Withdrawals" (NEVER enable this)
   - Whitelist your IP address (recommended)
3. Copy API Key and Secret to `.env`

### Coinbase Pro
1. Log in to Coinbase Pro → Settings → API → Create new API key
2. **Permissions:**
   - ✅ View
   - ✅ Trade
   - ❌ Do not enable Transfer
3. Copy API Key, Secret, and Passphrase to `.env`

### Kraken
1. Log in to Kraken → Settings → API → Generate new key
2. **Permissions:**
   - ✅ Query Funds
   - ✅ Query Open Orders & Trades
   - ✅ Create & Modify Orders
   - ❌ Do not enable Withdraw Funds
3. Copy API Key and Private Key to `.env`

---

## 🎮 Usage

### Basic Commands
```bash
# Start bot in paper trading mode
python aureon_bot.py --mode paper

# Start bot in live trading mode
python aureon_bot.py --mode live

# Use custom config file
python aureon_bot.py --config my_config.yml

# Run with verbose logging
python aureon_bot.py --log-level DEBUG

# Backtest historical data
python aureon_bot.py --backtest --start-date 2024-01-01 --end-date 2024-12-31

# View performance dashboard
python aureon_bot.py --dashboard-only
```

### Advanced Usage
```bash
# Multi-pair trading
python aureon_bot.py --pairs BTC/USDT,ETH/USDT,SOL/USDT

# Custom risk profile
python aureon_bot.py --risk-profile aggressive

# Dry run (no actual trades, just signal detection)
python aureon_bot.py --dry-run

# Export trade history
python aureon_bot.py --export-trades --output trades_2024.csv
```

---

## 🛡️ Risk Management

### Built-In Protections
- **Per-Trade Stop Loss** – Automatic stop-loss on every position (default 1.5%, configurable)
- **Position Sizing** – Kelly Criterion, fixed percentage, or capped position limits
- **Daily Loss Limit** – Stops trading if daily loss exceeds threshold (default 5%)
- **Maximum Concurrent Positions** – Limits exposure (default 3 positions)
- **Trailing Stop** – Locks in profits as price moves favorably (configurable)
- **Drawdown Protection** – Monitors cumulative losses, reduces position sizes, pauses trading if needed

### Risk Calculation Example
- Account balance: £10,000
- Risk per trade: 2% (£200)
- Stop loss: 1.5%
- Entry price: £50,000 (BTC/USDT)

Position Size:
$$\text{Position Size} = \frac{\text{Risk Amount}}{\text{Stop Loss \%}} = \frac{£200}{0.015} = £13,333$$

Units to Buy:
$$\text{Units} = \frac{£13,333}{£50,000} = 0.2667 \text{ BTC}$$

Stop Loss Price:
$$\text{Stop Loss} = £50,000 \times (1 - 0.015) = £49,250$$

Take Profit Price (2.4:1 R:R):
$$\text{Take Profit} = £50,000 + (£750 \times 2.4) = £51,800$$

---

## 📊 Performance Monitoring

### Real-Time Dashboard
- Access at `http://localhost:8080`
- Includes live P&L, open positions, recent trades, win rate, profit factor, drawdown curve, signal strength, exchange connection status

### Key Metrics
- **Win Rate:** $\frac{\text{Winning Trades}}{\text{Total Trades}} \times 100$
- **Profit Factor:** $\frac{\text{Gross Profit}}{\text{Gross Loss}}$
- **Sharpe Ratio:** $\frac{\text{Mean Return} - \text{Risk-Free Rate}}{\text{Std Dev of Returns}}$
- **Maximum Drawdown:** $\frac{\text{Trough Value} - \text{Peak Value}}{\text{Peak Value}} \times 100$

### Trade Logs
Default location: `./data/trades.csv`
```csv
timestamp,pair,side,entry_price,exit_price,quantity,pnl,pnl_percent,duration,signal_strength,exit_reason
2024-10-29 14:32:10,BTC/USDT,long,67450.00,68890.00,0.148,213.12,2.13,4.5h,0.87,take_profit
2024-10-29 19:15:43,ETH/USDT,long,2580.00,2545.00,3.876,-135.66,-1.36,2.1h,0.72,stop_loss
```

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

1. **"API Key Invalid" Error**
   - Verify API credentials in `.env`
   - Check API permissions on exchange
   - Ensure IP whitelist includes your current IP

2. **"Insufficient Balance" Error**
   - Check account balance on exchange
   - Reduce position size in config
   - Verify `initial_capital` setting matches actual balance

3. **Bot Not Detecting Signals**
   - Lower `lighthouse_threshold` (try 0.65-0.70)
   - Increase `fibonacci_depth` (try 10-12)
   - Check if market is in low-volatility period
   - Verify data feed connection

4. **High False Positive Rate**
   - Increase `lighthouse_threshold` (try 0.80-0.85)
   - Adjust `min_signal_strength` higher
   - Enable multi-timeframe confirmation
   - Review `lighthouse_weights` (increase `geometric_anomaly` weight)

5. **Dashboard Not Loading**
   - Check if port 8080 is available
   - Try different port: `python aureon_bot.py --dashboard-port 8081`
   - Verify firewall settings
   - Check logs: `tail -f logs/aureon.log`

### Debug Mode
```bash
# Run with verbose logging
python aureon_bot.py --log-level DEBUG

# View real-time logs
tail -f logs/aureon.log

# Search for errors
grep ERROR logs/aureon.log

# View last 100 lines
tail -n 100 logs/aureon.log
```

---

## 🔒 Security

### Critical Security Practices
- **API Keys:** Never enable withdrawals, use IP whitelisting, store in `.env`, rotate keys regularly
- **Environment Variables:** Add `.env` to `.gitignore`, use environment-specific configs, never hardcode secrets
- **Server Security:** Use firewall, SSH key authentication, disable root login, keep system updated
- **Monitoring:** Enable alerts, monitor API usage, set up uptime monitoring, audit logs regularly

### Recommended `.gitignore`
```
.env
config.yml
*.log
logs/
data/trades.csv
__pycache__/
*.pyc
venv/
.DS_Store
```

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions!
1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Commit changes: `git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`
4. Push to branch: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
5. Open Pull Request

**Contribution Guidelines:**
- Follow PEP 8 style guide
- Add unit tests for new features
- Update documentation
- Keep commits atomic and well-described

---

## 📄 License

MIT License

```
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2025 R&A Consulting and Brokerage Services Ltd

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```

---

## 📞 Support

- 📧 Email: [support@aureontrading.com](mailto:support@aureontrading.com)
- 💬 Telegram: Aureon Community
- 📚 Documentation: [docs.aureontrading.com](https://docs.aureontrading.com)
- 🐛 Bug Reports: GitHub Issues

**Professional Support**
- 📞 Phone: +44 20 3376 9641
- 📧 Enterprise: [enterprise@aureontrading.com](mailto:enterprise@aureontrading.com)
- 💼 Consulting: [consulting@raconsultingandbrokerageservices.com](mailto:consulting@raconsultingandbrokerageservices.com)

---

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

Trading involves substantial risk of loss.
- This software is provided for educational and research purposes
- Past performance does not guarantee future results
- Cryptocurrency markets are highly volatile and unpredictable
- Never invest more than you can afford to lose
- The authors and R&A Consulting are not responsible for trading losses
- Consult a financial advisor before trading
- Use at your own risk

By using this software, you acknowledge and accept all risks associated with cryptocurrency trading.

---

## 🚀 What's Next?

- Run Paper Trading – Validate performance risk-free (7-30 days)
- Start Small – Begin live trading with minimal capital
- Monitor & Optimize – Review analytics, adjust parameters
- Scale Gradually – Increase position sizes as confidence grows
- Join Community – Share insights, learn from other traders

---

## 📑 QGITA Whitepaper

Dive deeper into the theoretical underpinnings of the QGITA detection engine in the [Quantum Gravity in the Act whitepaper](docs/QGITA_Whitepaper.md). The document details the Fibonacci-tightened curvature stage, Lighthouse consensus model, ablation findings, and broader implications for complex signal analysis.

---

Built with 💎 by R&A Consulting and Brokerage Services Ltd
Belfast, Northern Ireland

Commit message:

Add AQTS configuration, automation scripts, and technical spec

README.md, after:

# Aureon Quantum Trading Bot

Autonomous cryptocurrency trading system powered by the **QGITA (Quantum Gravity in the Act)** framework.

---

## 🚀 Overview

The Aureon Quantum Trading Bot is an advanced algorithmic trading system that uses Fibonacci time lattices and multi-metric consensus to detect high-probability structural events in cryptocurrency markets. Unlike traditional bots that react to lagging indicators, QGITA predicts market shifts before they fully materialize.

### Key Features
- ✅ Autonomous 24/7 trading across multiple exchanges
- ✅ Two-stage detection: Fibonacci lattice + Lighthouse consensus
- ✅ Military-grade risk management (stop-loss, position sizing, drawdown protection)
- ✅ Multi-exchange support (Binance, Coinbase Pro, Kraken)
- ✅ Real-time alerts (SMS, email, push notifications)
- ✅ Paper trading mode for risk-free validation
- ✅ Advanced analytics dashboard
- ✅ 75-85% historical win rate

---

## 📋 Table of Contents
1. [Installation](#-installation)
2. [Quick Start](#-quick-start)
3. [Configuration](#-configuration)
4. [How It Works](#-how-it-works)
5. [API Setup](#-api-setup)
6. [Usage](#-usage)
7. [Risk Management](#%EF%B8%8F-risk-management)
8. [Performance Monitoring](#-performance-monitoring)
9. [Troubleshooting](#-troubleshooting)
10. [Security](#-security)
11. [Contributing](#-contributing)
12. [License](#-license)
13. [Support](#-support)
14. [Disclaimer](#-disclaimer)
15. [Whats Next](#-whats-next)
16. [QGITA Whitepaper](#-qgita-whitepaper)

---

## 🔧 Installation

### Prerequisites
- Python 3.9+ (recommended: 3.11)
- `pip` package manager
- Virtual environment (recommended)
- Exchange API keys (Binance, Coinbase, or Kraken)
- Minimum 4GB RAM, 10GB disk space

### Step 1: Clone the Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/raconsulting/aureon-trading-bot.git
cd aureon-trading-bot
```

### Step 2: Create Virtual Environment
```bash
# Windows
python -m venv venv
venv\Scripts\activate

# macOS/Linux
python3 -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate
```

### Step 3: Install Dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

### Step 4: Install Optional Dependencies
```bash
# For advanced analytics
pip install -r requirements-analytics.txt

# For machine learning enhancements
pip install -r requirements-ml.txt
```

---

## ⚡ Quick Start

1. **Configure Your Environment**
   ```bash
   cp config.example.yml config.yml
   ```
   Edit `config.yml` with your settings:
   ```yaml
   # Basic Configuration
   mode: paper  # 'paper' or 'live'
   exchange: binance
   trading_pairs:
     - BTC/USDT
     - ETH/USDT

   # Risk Management
   risk_per_trade: 0.02  # 2% of capital per trade
   max_daily_loss: 0.05  # Stop trading if 5% daily loss
   stop_loss_percent: 0.015  # 1.5% stop loss
   take_profit_ratio: 2.4  # 2.4:1 risk/reward

   # QGITA Parameters
   fibonacci_depth: 8
   lighthouse_threshold: 0.75  # 75% consensus required
   ```

2. **Add API Keys**

   Create `.env` file (never commit this to git):
   ```bash
   # Binance
   BINANCE_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
   BINANCE_API_SECRET=your_api_secret_here

   # Coinbase Pro
   COINBASE_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
   COINBASE_API_SECRET=your_api_secret_here
   COINBASE_PASSPHRASE=your_passphrase_here

   # Kraken
   KRAKEN_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
   KRAKEN_API_SECRET=your_api_secret_here
   ```

   ⚠️ **Critical Security:**
   - NEVER enable withdrawal permissions on API keys
   - Use IP whitelisting on exchange settings
   - Enable 2FA on your exchange account
   - Store `.env` file securely (never commit to version control)

3. **Run in Paper Trading Mode (Recommended)**
   ```bash
   python aureon_bot.py --mode paper
   ```
   Paper trading uses real market data but simulated trades. Run this for 7-30 days to validate performance before risking real capital.

4. **Switch to Live Trading**
   ```bash
   python aureon_bot.py --mode live
   ```
   ⚠️ **Warning:** Live trading risks real capital. Start with small position sizes.

---

## 🧠 AQTS Automation Toolkit

| Command | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `npm run simulate` | Drives the AQTS orchestrator tick-by-tick using `config/config.example.json` (or a custom file supplied via the `AQTS_CONFIG` environment variable). |
| `npm run backtest` | Executes configurable multi-iteration backtests and prints aggregate win rate, Sharpe ratio, drawdown, and signal confidence. |

Both commands expect a TypeScript runtime such as [`tsx`](https://github.com/esbuild-kit/tsx). Install dependencies before running (`npm install`). Use `AQTS_STEPS` and `AQTS_ITERATIONS` to tailor the horizon and sample size.

For a deep dive into the orchestration layers, configuration schema, deployment patterns, and monitoring practices, see the [AQTS Technical Specification](docs/AQTS_Technical_Specification.md).

---

## ⚙️ Configuration

`config.yml` controls all bot behavior:
```yaml
# TRADING MODE
mode: paper  # Options: 'paper', 'live'

# EXCHANGE SETTINGS
exchange: binance  # Options: 'binance', 'coinbase', 'kraken'
trading_pairs:
  - BTC/USDT
  - ETH/USDT
  - SOL/USDT

# CAPITAL ALLOCATION
initial_capital: 10000  # Starting capital (USDT)
max_positions: 3  # Maximum concurrent positions
position_sizing: kelly  # Options: 'fixed', 'kelly', 'percent'

# RISK MANAGEMENT
risk_per_trade: 0.02  # 2% risk per trade
max_daily_loss: 0.05  # 5% max daily drawdown
stop_loss_percent: 0.015  # 1.5% stop loss
take_profit_ratio: 2.4  # 2.4:1 reward/risk
trailing_stop: true
trailing_stop_percent: 0.01  # 1% trailing stop

# QGITA DETECTION PARAMETERS
fibonacci_depth: 8  # Fibonacci sequence depth
curvature_window: 20  # Rolling window for curvature calculation
lighthouse_threshold: 0.75  # 75% consensus required (0-1)
min_signal_strength: 0.65  # Minimum signal confidence (0-1)

# LIGHTHOUSE METRICS WEIGHTS
lighthouse_weights:
  linear_coherence: 0.15
  nonlinear_coherence: 0.25
  cross_scale_coherence: 0.20
  geometric_anomaly: 0.30
  anomaly_pointer: 0.10

# TIMEFRAMES
primary_timeframe: 1h  # Main detection timeframe
secondary_timeframes:  # Multi-timeframe analysis
  - 15m
  - 4h
  - 1d

# ALERTS
alerts_enabled: true
alert_methods:
  - email
  - sms
  - telegram
email_recipients:
  - your_email@example.com
telegram_bot_token: YOUR_TELEGRAM_BOT_TOKEN
telegram_chat_id: YOUR_TELEGRAM_CHAT_ID

# LOGGING
log_level: INFO  # Options: DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR
log_to_file: true
log_directory: ./logs

# PERFORMANCE TRACKING
save_trades: true
trade_log_file: ./data/trades.csv
performance_dashboard: true
dashboard_port: 8080
```

### Risk Profiles (Presets)

**Conservative**
- `risk_per_trade: 0.01`
- `max_daily_loss: 0.03`
- `stop_loss_percent: 0.01`
- `lighthouse_threshold: 0.85`

**Balanced (Recommended)**
- `risk_per_trade: 0.02`
- `max_daily_loss: 0.05`
- `stop_loss_percent: 0.015`
- `lighthouse_threshold: 0.75`

**Aggressive**
- `risk_per_trade: 0.03`
- `max_daily_loss: 0.08`
- `stop_loss_percent: 0.02`
- `lighthouse_threshold: 0.65`

---

## 🧠 How It Works

### The QGITA Framework

QGITA (Quantum Gravity in the Act) is a two-stage anomaly detection system that identifies structural market events with precision.

#### Stage 1: Fibonacci Time Lattice
- **Purpose:** Identify moments of high structural resonance
- **Process:**
  1. Generate Fibonacci sequence: `[1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, ...]`
  2. Create time lattice at golden-ratio intervals
  3. Calculate price curvature at each Fibonacci point
  4. Detect "Fibonacci-Tightened Curvature Points" (FTCPs) where:
     - Curvature spike exceeds threshold
     - Timing aligns with golden ratio (φ = 1.618...)
- **Why it Works:** Markets exhibit natural rhythms aligned with Fibonacci sequences. By scanning at golden-ratio intervals, we detect structural turning points hidden in noise.
- **Mathematical Foundation:**
  $$\text{FTCP} =  t_i : \kappa(t_i) > \kappa_{\text{threshold}} \land t_i \in \mathcal{F}$$
  Where:
  - $\kappa(t)$ = price curvature at time $t$
  - $\mathcal{F}$ = Fibonacci time lattice
  - $\kappa_{\text{threshold}}$ = dynamic threshold based on historical volatility

#### Stage 2: Lighthouse Consensus
- **Purpose:** Validate FTCPs as true market events
- **Process:** Each FTCP is evaluated by 5 independent metrics:
  1. **Linear Coherence ($C_L$)** – Measures trend clarity using linear regression
  2. **Nonlinear Coherence ($C_{NL}$)** – Detects hidden patterns using wavelet analysis
  3. **Cross-Scale Coherence ($C_{XS}$)** – Validates alignment across multiple timeframes
  4. **Geometric Anomaly ($G_{\text{eff}}$)** – Quantifies structural deviation from baseline
  5. **Anomaly Pointer ($Q$)** – Measures signal sharpness vs noise

- **Lighthouse Score:**
  $$L = w_1 C_L + w_2 C_{NL} + w_3 C_{XS} + w_4 G_{\text{eff}} + w_5 Q$$

- **Trade Signal Generated If:**
  $$L > L_{\text{threshold}} \quad (\text{typically } 0.75)$$

- **Result:**
  - 99%+ reduction in false positives
  - From 100+ daily "signals" to 1-3 high-conviction trades
  - 75-85% win rate in backtesting

### Trade Execution Flow

1. Market Data → Fibonacci Lattice → FTCP Detection → Lighthouse Validation → Risk Check → Order Execution → Position Monitoring → Exit Management

#### Detailed Steps
1. **Data Ingestion** – Real-time price data, order book depth, volume, and volatility metrics
2. **FTCP Detection** – Calculate curvature at Fibonacci intervals, flag potential structural events
3. **Lighthouse Validation** – Compute metrics, calculate weighted consensus, filter out noise
4. **Risk Assessment** – Check positions, verify daily loss limit, calculate position size, set stop-loss/take-profit
5. **Order Execution** – Submit order, confirm fill, log trade, set stop-loss
6. **Position Monitoring** – Track P&L, adjust trailing stops, watch for exit signals
7. **Exit Management** – Close position on stop-loss, take-profit, Lighthouse reversal, or end-of-day risk limit

---

## 🔑 API Setup

### Binance
1. Log in to Binance → Profile → API Management → Create new API key
2. **Critical Settings:**
   - ✅ Enable "Enable Reading"
   - ✅ Enable "Enable Spot & Margin Trading"
   - ❌ Disable "Enable Withdrawals" (NEVER enable this)
   - Whitelist your IP address (recommended)
3. Copy API Key and Secret to `.env`

### Coinbase Pro
1. Log in to Coinbase Pro → Settings → API → Create new API key
2. **Permissions:**
   - ✅ View
   - ✅ Trade
   - ❌ Do not enable Transfer
3. Copy API Key, Secret, and Passphrase to `.env`

### Kraken
1. Log in to Kraken → Settings → API → Generate new key
2. **Permissions:**
   - ✅ Query Funds
   - ✅ Query Open Orders & Trades
   - ✅ Create & Modify Orders
   - ❌ Do not enable Withdraw Funds
3. Copy API Key and Private Key to `.env`

---

## 🎮 Usage

### Basic Commands
```bash
# Start bot in paper trading mode
python aureon_bot.py --mode paper

# Start bot in live trading mode
python aureon_bot.py --mode live

# Use custom config file
python aureon_bot.py --config my_config.yml

# Run with verbose logging
python aureon_bot.py --log-level DEBUG

# Backtest historical data
python aureon_bot.py --backtest --start-date 2024-01-01 --end-date 2024-12-31

# View performance dashboard
python aureon_bot.py --dashboard-only
```

### Advanced Usage
```bash
# Multi-pair trading
python aureon_bot.py --pairs BTC/USDT,ETH/USDT,SOL/USDT

# Custom risk profile
python aureon_bot.py --risk-profile aggressive

# Dry run (no actual trades, just signal detection)
python aureon_bot.py --dry-run

# Export trade history
python aureon_bot.py --export-trades --output trades_2024.csv
```

---

## 🛡️ Risk Management

### Built-In Protections
- **Per-Trade Stop Loss** – Automatic stop-loss on every position (default 1.5%, configurable)
- **Position Sizing** – Kelly Criterion, fixed percentage, or capped position limits
- **Daily Loss Limit** – Stops trading if daily loss exceeds threshold (default 5%)
- **Maximum Concurrent Positions** – Limits exposure (default 3 positions)
- **Trailing Stop** – Locks in profits as price moves favorably (configurable)
- **Drawdown Protection** – Monitors cumulative losses, reduces position sizes, pauses trading if needed

### Risk Calculation Example
- Account balance: £10,000
- Risk per trade: 2% (£200)
- Stop loss: 1.5%
- Entry price: £50,000 (BTC/USDT)

Position Size:
$$\text{Position Size} = \frac{\text{Risk Amount}}{\text{Stop Loss \%}} = \frac{£200}{0.015} = £13,333$$

Units to Buy:
$$\text{Units} = \frac{£13,333}{£50,000} = 0.2667 \text{ BTC}$$

Stop Loss Price:
$$\text{Stop Loss} = £50,000 \times (1 - 0.015) = £49,250$$

Take Profit Price (2.4:1 R:R):
$$\text{Take Profit} = £50,000 + (£750 \times 2.4) = £51,800$$

---

## 📊 Performance Monitoring

### Real-Time Dashboard
- Access at `http://localhost:8080`
- Includes live P&L, open positions, recent trades, win rate, profit factor, drawdown curve, signal strength, exchange connection status

### Key Metrics
- **Win Rate:** $\frac{\text{Winning Trades}}{\text{Total Trades}} \times 100$
- **Profit Factor:** $\frac{\text{Gross Profit}}{\text{Gross Loss}}$
- **Sharpe Ratio:** $\frac{\text{Mean Return} - \text{Risk-Free Rate}}{\text{Std Dev of Returns}}$
- **Maximum Drawdown:** $\frac{\text{Trough Value} - \text{Peak Value}}{\text{Peak Value}} \times 100$

### Trade Logs
Default location: `./data/trades.csv`
```csv
timestamp,pair,side,entry_price,exit_price,quantity,pnl,pnl_percent,duration,signal_strength,exit_reason
2024-10-29 14:32:10,BTC/USDT,long,67450.00,68890.00,0.148,213.12,2.13,4.5h,0.87,take_profit
2024-10-29 19:15:43,ETH/USDT,long,2580.00,2545.00,3.876,-135.66,-1.36,2.1h,0.72,stop_loss
```

---

## 🐛 Troubleshooting

1. **"API Key Invalid" Error**
   - Verify API credentials in `.env`
   - Check API permissions on exchange
   - Ensure IP whitelist includes your current IP

2. **"Insufficient Balance" Error**
   - Check account balance on exchange
   - Reduce position size in config
   - Verify `initial_capital` setting matches actual balance

3. **Bot Not Detecting Signals**
   - Lower `lighthouse_threshold` (try 0.65-0.70)
   - Increase `fibonacci_depth` (try 10-12)
   - Check if market is in low-volatility period
   - Verify data feed connection

4. **High False Positive Rate**
   - Increase `lighthouse_threshold` (try 0.80-0.85)
   - Adjust `min_signal_strength` higher
   - Enable multi-timeframe confirmation
   - Review `lighthouse_weights` (increase `geometric_anomaly` weight)

5. **Dashboard Not Loading**
   - Check if port 8080 is available
   - Try different port: `python aureon_bot.py --dashboard-port 8081`
   - Verify firewall settings
   - Check logs: `tail -f logs/aureon.log`

### Debug Mode
```bash
# Run with verbose logging
python aureon_bot.py --log-level DEBUG

# View real-time logs
tail -f logs/aureon.log

# Search for errors
grep ERROR logs/aureon.log

# View last 100 lines
tail -n 100 logs/aureon.log
```

---

## 🔒 Security

### Critical Security Practices
- **API Keys:** Never enable withdrawals, use IP whitelisting, store in `.env`, rotate keys regularly
- **Environment Variables:** Add `.env` to `.gitignore`, use environment-specific configs, never hardcode secrets
- **Server Security:** Use firewall, SSH key authentication, disable root login, keep system updated
- **Monitoring:** Enable alerts, monitor API usage, set up uptime monitoring, audit logs regularly

### Recommended `.gitignore`
```
.env
config.yml
*.log
logs/
data/trades.csv
__pycache__/
*.pyc
venv/
.DS_Store
```

---

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions!
1. Fork the repository
2. Create feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`
3. Commit changes: `git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`
4. Push to branch: `git push origin feature/amazing-feature`
5. Open Pull Request

**Contribution Guidelines:**
- Follow PEP 8 style guide
- Add unit tests for new features
- Update documentation
- Keep commits atomic and well-described

---

## 📄 License

MIT License

```
MIT License

Copyright (c) 2025 R&A Consulting and Brokerage Services Ltd

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
```

---

## 📞 Support

- 📧 Email: [support@aureontrading.com](mailto:support@aureontrading.com)
- 💬 Telegram: Aureon Community
- 📚 Documentation: [docs.aureontrading.com](https://docs.aureontrading.com)
- 🐛 Bug Reports: GitHub Issues

**Professional Support**
- 📞 Phone: +44 20 3376 9641
- 📧 Enterprise: [enterprise@aureontrading.com](mailto:enterprise@aureontrading.com)
- 💼 Consulting: [consulting@raconsultingandbrokerageservices.com](mailto:consulting@raconsultingandbrokerageservices.com)

---

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

Trading involves substantial risk of loss.
- This software is provided for educational and research purposes
- Past performance does not guarantee future results
- Cryptocurrency markets are highly volatile and unpredictable
- Never invest more than you can afford to lose
- The authors and R&A Consulting are not responsible for trading losses
- Consult a financial advisor before trading
- Use at your own risk

By using this software, you acknowledge and accept all risks associated with cryptocurrency trading.

---

## 🚀 What's Next?

- Run Paper Trading – Validate performance risk-free (7-30 days)
- Start Small – Begin live trading with minimal capital
- Monitor & Optimize – Review analytics, adjust parameters
- Scale Gradually – Increase position sizes as confidence grows
- Join Community – Share insights, learn from other traders

---

## 📑 QGITA Whitepaper

Dive deeper into the theoretical underpinnings of the QGITA detection engine in the [Quantum Gravity in the Act whitepaper](docs/QGITA_Whitepaper.md). The document details the Fibonacci-tightened curvature stage, Lighthouse consensus model, ablation findings, and broader implications for complex signal analysis.

---

Built with 💎 by R&A Consulting and Brokerage Services Ltd
Belfast, Northern Ireland
